We were born 40-some-odd years ago.
>> Right. In the era of DOS.
And Right. Which makes it even more
impressive how well you guys have done.
>> And I would just say our success is when
we were always in love with the customer
problem and always willing to disrupt
ourselves. And that's so much easier
said than done, by the way. So much
easier said than done.
But that's why we're still around.
[Music]
Hey, welcome to the pod. Today we have
Sasan, the CEO of Intuit. I've known and
liked Sasan for a very long time, and
I've known and liked Intuit for a very
long time. They're an interesting
company that have been around for many,
many decades in a bit of a contrarian
space selling into very small
businesses, and they've scaled to a $180
billion market cap. So, there's a lot to
learn from these guys, and I'm excited
to dig in. I've actually met three
different Intuit CEOs, and I work with
tons of CEOs in my daily life.
These are grown-ups, and I think there's
something to be learned from grown-ups,
and we're going to dig into some
grown-up topics. We dig into what does a
grown-up CEO operating system look like?
What is Sasan's hiring criteria, which I
did not expect and I think's pretty
interesting.
How do you build an indirect channel?
Most of the QuickBooks revenue comes
through an accounting channel that they
built that's fascinating.
We talked about second acts and third
acts and platforms, one of my favorite
topics and something they're very, very
good at.
And then we talk about SMB. There are
very few companies that have built with
any scale in the SMB segment of the
market. I hope you come back and we chat
again after the interview, cuz I have a
lot of takes on it.
See you on the other side.
Sasan, great to see you. Very good to
see you, man. It's been a long time. I
know. I miss you.
I You know, you look great. You too. You
too. You too. I So, I I came on the
campus today,
and it reminded me the first time I
visited the Intuit campus, which was in
2010. HubSpot was 4 years old, and my
co-founder and I were coming to visit
Scott Cook and your CEO, and we were
just sitting in the lobby, and I just
remember I wanted to throw up on myself.
I was so nervous, cuz we were a little
tiny company. We really looked up to
you. And we met with you guys, and we
had a really good meeting,
and you guys gave us a lot of insight.
And at the end of the meeting, I was
kind of taken with Brad Smith, your CEO,
and I said, "Is there any chance you'd
let me shadow you for a day?" Ah, yeah.
And he said, "Sure. Come on in back
anytime." Which I was delighted. And so,
about a month later, I came back, sat in
the lobby, wanted to throw up on myself,
cuz I was so nervous.
And I shadowed Brad Smith, the legend.
And it was a fascinating day. I learned
a lot. He brought me to the executive
leadership committee meeting. All the
executives in there. I saw how he ran
it. It was really good. Founder was in
there. Just went through the whole day
with him, lunch, everything. The most
interesting meeting was he had a
performance review with someone. And you
were in the room? And it was kind of a
tough performance review. Oh, wow.
>> And he's like, "Nope, you're going to
stay in the room." So, I was in the
room, and this guy, you know, he said
all the plusses and minuses. So, that's
when I think back to Intuit. I learned
so much from Brad and so much from you
guys, and there's so much Intuit inside
of HubSpot. Uh but we're not here to
talk about me. We're here to talk about
you. You're becoming a legend running
Intuit, doing so well. Tell me about
when you first took the job. You took
the job over from Brad. The building is
named after Brad. What was that like? In
2018, you Brad Smith has done a great
job, is stepping down. They're looking
for a new CEO. There's this Was it at
all like the show Succession? That's a
good one. So, you know, I did something
very much like I'm just I'm curious, uh
and I'm always out learning from from
customers, from our product teams, and
and um external leaders. So, one of the
things I did, but I would just say more
like an event, um when I was announced,
is I went out and talked to
15, 20 folks that if I were to name
them, you would know all of them. And
and it was really to get advice. But but
the one person that comes to mind is um
given your question with Steve Young. Uh
so, quarterback of the 49ers, Hall of
Famer.
Um I went and met him, and and it's a
le- He's a legend. And the reason I went
to meet him is he had to step in,
you know, behind big shoes, Joe Montana.
>> It was the most unforgettable meeting,
cuz he actually took me through the
journey of when he became quarterback. I
think it was when Joe Montana got hurt.
And long story short, he said, "Listen,
I was getting booed. Um people were
like, 'Bring Joe back.' And we were
having a tough time. And
And he said I was on a plane ride back
um with someone famous that I won't name
here, cuz he
asked me not to ever name them. In
essence, the person said, 'Oh, you're
Steve Young.' And he was said I was
pouting and telling him how pissed off I
was, cuz I'd taken a couple of day
break. And the person said,
"You
have been chosen as the quarterback of
the San Francisco 49ers.
You are not here to fill Joe Montana's
shoes.
You are here to win.
They picked you as the quarterback.
So, he said, "Go be the best that you
can be,
and don't try to follow Joe Montana."
And he said that conversation changed
him. Okay.
>> that conversation, if you look at when
he had the conversation and then his
trajectory and then the 49ers
trajectory, it completely changed."
>> Did someone have that conversation with
you?
>> That's the advice he gave me. It does
seem like there's
the se- you old CEO playbook seems to be
changing. Like Jensen Huang is doing all
kinds of interesting things. The whole
founder mode thing.
What are the non-obvious things that
really work for you in the job that
maybe not be part of the normal
playbook?
Oh, first of all, you're right. I think
I think there is no playbook, and it
changes on a monthly basis. So, if you
try to stick to a playbook, you could be
in trouble. The couple of things that um
have always kept me grounded um is
the main theme is just curiosity. So, I
spend a lot of time with customers.
Uh they always keep me grounded in terms
of like what's important, uh what are
they trying to do with their life, what
tools are they using, why are they using
them. So, that's one. Um two, I spend a
lot of time also doing
>> A lot of CEOs, I was just going to push
back a little bit. Every CEO does that
these days. Yes. You should do it. But
but I use that as one element of always
being grounded. The second is I spend a
lot of time with our frontline engineers
to try to understand like what's getting
in their way, are there dependencies
that slows them down, cuz velocity is is
everything.
So, I'm close to customers, close to our
frontlines, cuz I think it's we're
sitting in our shoes, a lot of stuff
gets filtered.
And so, you have to be in touch with
customers, you have to be in touch with
frontline employees, and you have to be
in touch with just your KPIs, like
what's working and what's not. So, one
is just
helicopter skills. And no matter what is
going on, that's one common thing that
always grounds me. I call it spelunking.
Kind of you're up here, and then way
down, and then come back up. Drive
people crazy, by the way, but that's
kind of how I do it.
>> But by the way, I think every successful
leader, you don't have to be a CEO,
every successful leader has to be has to
have a method in which they operate. You
have to be grounded in the details. You
have to be close to the details, because
if you just operate in the cloud and you
don't know what's going on with
employees, customers, products, and your
KPIs, then I don't think you're
effective. So, that's you asked about
playbook.
>> Yep.
That's the common thing that always
helps me be in love with the problem and
how fast the world is moving and not in
love with what we've declared. I would
say just second thing is I'm just big on
principles and mechanisms. Like what are
the What do you mean by that? Um
principles are like, for instance, we we
have a mechanism in which we run the
company, but it's really how I spend my
time. And
just if I even if I think about today,
you know, in one meeting, we were
talking about things that are coming
around the corner and
haven't even been invented yet. Doing a
product review to reviewing our
dashboard to meeting with a customer.
So, it mechanisms are just about how do
we manage short and long? How do we
ensure that we're really monitoring the
things that we've said we're going to do
around product, around around
go-to-market? But also mechanisms to
invest time with thought partners that
are very comfortable telling me, "Hey, I
don't think your strategy's right. I
don't think what you're doing is right.
Here's what I think you should be
doing."
So, we have mechanisms in terms of how
we run the company.
>> have those been around? Are those new,
or that's like Intuit in in the in the
you know, in the We changed it
completely 6 years ago, but we've we've
evolved them almost every year. There
isn't just one. But the I would say the
three or four that I would call out is
we have a mechanism where the intent of
the mechanism is question everything
we've declared. Okay. And if today was
day one,
what would you do? I love that. Uh and
that just keeps us grounded. It's the
objective of the mechanism, so you don't
go into that discussion with the senior
team protecting what you're doing. So,
you're actually in there to blow up what
you're doing. I love that.
>> The intent is outside in. Today's day
one, you took over a CEO as a leadership
team, what would you do? That's a very
important mechanism. And how often does
that meeting or that context
>> That happens at least once a year, and I
use the word at least, cuz
situationally, if something is going on,
we'll we'll impromptu have a
conversation. Which we've done twice in
the last 2 years because of A lot going
on. A lot going on. Yeah. So, that's
that's a very important one. The other
one is when we actually review our
deliverable. One of the You talked about
shadowing. Um I'm big on shadowing.
>> Oh, you were. Okay.
>> And so, I I had the opportunity to
shadow
um Andy Jassy at at Amazon when I was
the CIO and he was running AWS.
And there's a number of things that I
learned from Amazon. One of them that we
copied
uh is what what's called their input
goal system. And their input goals are
really around like what are the big
products, go-to-market, technology
deliverables. So you're it's the biggest
decisions, investments that you're
making. Yeah. And with success metrics.
That's another mechanism I would call
out that's really changed uh clarity of
the inputs that we're focused on and how
are we doing against them. And they
expose where we have
prioritization issues, resource
allocation issues, talent issues. I just
found with HubSpot just on the input
thing like gravity pulls you towards
lagging indicators. And trying to keep
the company on
leading indicators is just hard.
>> Hard. And which is why I love this
mechanism. Okay. Uh it's not just a
mechanism, it's not just a meeting, it's
actually our entire a process around um
input goals. I love that one. And the
third one is we just we not only do I
spend a lot of time with customers, but
we have a sort of a a customer
experience review mechanism where we're
we're really talking about the
experience, what's working, what's not.
If I were to call out three and there's
there's more than three mechanisms,
those are the ones that I just think are
they're game changing for us. The third
one I like like I I called it the coal
face. I wanted to get on the coal face
and hear from the customers. So we had a
customer at every company meeting.
Once a month we had a staff meeting, we
would have customer panels at the staff
meeting. And the most lively ones were
the customers that had canceled. That
was always the best ones. And then we
just had our board meeting yesterday and
we have a customer panel at our board
meeting. Those are terrific. So similar
to HubSpot, trying to create mechanisms
to keep the customer loud in our ears.
>> That's right. And I love what you just
said, which is I think the most powerful
situations in our lives, right, is when
somebody is um
in a very authentic way challenging you.
Yep. And you're giving them permission
to challenge you. So as a customer if
you see we had a couple of customers
that had left us at our leadership
conference
uh in front of hundreds of our of our
leaders. And they were like, "Here's why
I left. Here's what you need to do
differently." And I just think there's a
lot of power when you learn from what
you could have done differently. And I
love what you all do at HubSpot. I just
think it really
brings to life a culture of learning and
curiosity. Yeah. I think we got a lot of
that from you, by the way. Um
I coach CEOs. I get very consistent
questions about certain things. And
anyone who's starting a company and is a
CEO targeting small medium businesses
finds me. Yeah. You guys are the world
champions of SMB. What's working so well
there?
Why does so many startups get it wrong
and end up going up to the enterprise?
What is the magic to creating a company
that really thrives in SMB because very
few. You know, Brian, it's um
first of all, I would say it's a it's a
magic that Scott Cook created, you know,
years ago um that we've just been over
the years uh building on. And and I
think the the first element of the
magic, this is going to sound real
obvious, but they're actually consumers.
Yeah. They behave like consumers, they
act like consumers. The minute you put
the word there a there a business in
front of it, then you start thinking
large business, large enterprise. And
they behave and act like consumers. And
so
the obsessive focus that you have to
have on like what problem can you solve
for that business that doesn't have the
infrastructure that a HubSpot and an
Intuit has, but they're
two, three people shop. Mhm. And they're
like, "How do you help them with the
basics? Like get a customer, know which
ones are profitable, help them get paid,
cash flow." Like really narrow, narrow
problems to solve has really been the
success of what Scott created and what
we built uh you know, over the years. Is
the follow me home thing that Scott
invented, is that still a thing in
Intuit?
>> Yeah yeah it is. And what we are
coupling it with is a couple of things.
One,
there's follow me homes and then there's
follow me homes. Okay. You can do a
follow me home where you're telling the
customer, "Here's what I'm doing." And
just you want confirmation bias. Then
there's follow me homes, which is a real
technique and you're truly there
to observe, learn, and and try to
capture the ah-has, the surprises. Cuz
the big thing we've learned is customer
don't do what they say. Yeah. Right? And
so really we have continued to invest in
like the technique of a follow me home.
It's a thing, but it's not the biggest
thing on
>> Okay. Because before before data, before
we were in the cloud, it was the thing
when we were shipping CDs.
>> Yeah. But now that's coupled with data.
Right? And in the world of cloud, you
have so much data, so you can real time
understand and see what's the customer
behavior, what are they doing, why did
they get stuck there, why did they fall
off? And so now we try to couple the
two, but it is Yeah. uh still a thing.
The our focus is how do you do the thing
the right way? Now, I spent a lot of
time at SQY Capital. I spent a lot of
time fundraising at HubSpot. Seeing how
road is allergic to SMBs. Any business
SMB they're allergic to it. Why do you
think that is? And why do you think more
companies haven't pulled it off? I think
more companies are successful today
serving businesses than they were
before. You all are a great example of
them. Not a lot of examples of them,
though.
>> There's not too many. There's not too
many. I think it's it's folks that
really understand these are consumers.
>> Mhm. And really focus on like what's a
narrow problem that is big enough for
the customer that you can go after and
get started. And one that you actually
can build advantage and one that they're
willing to pay for. Mhm. That sounds
But well, of course, everybody needs to
do that for any customer problem that
they solve.
But I think most people treat small
businesses like they're large
enterprises because they're they're a
business. And the reality is they they
are absolutely consumers. They behave
like consumers.
>> I get follow me home and data on that
side. Talked about just the go-to-market
and how do you keep the CAC down? Yeah.
And how do you keep churn from not
running away on these small businesses
cuz I think the unit economics is I
think something that where so many
companies fall down on the small
business side.
>> I mean the How do you scale CAC and get
so many customers? And then how do you
control
retention and I'm like your gross
retention, revenue retention.
>> Of course. Let me just start there. It's
it's really really hard.
>> CAC side.
>> I would say two two big things. One is
um referral and our partners and
accountants. The better of a job that
you do serving one business, the the
word of mouth is huge. So word of mouth
is huge and then accountants
recommending it. And accountants only
recommend things that they use, love,
and recommend. That's how we've learned
to keep the CAC down. Now, what I would
tell you is every time we've tried to go
into a new country, CAC is very high.
>> Right. For exactly that reason. You're
trying to get the first customer, get
them to, you know, word of mouth to
spread, then get an accountant to use
it, and then get the accountant, and
then you create that network effect. And
we have found where we can create
network effects like we've done it in
the US and Canada and in UK,
we can keep the CAC um under control.
But we don't look at CAC
holistically. We'll look at it based on
new product, new markets. Our toleration
should be very different than like in
the US where we have a a big scale, but
that's success is word of mouth and
accountants.
Okay. I want There's a lot to unpack
there. You do Super Bowl ads for
QuickBooks and things like that.
Does that stuff work? Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
>> How do you know? Yes. Well, the Cuz
we've talked about it with HubSpot. It's
like we I don't know. Yeah, we first of
all, we we started doing them and we
primarily, you know, where we've been
consistent is TurboTax. Okay. And uh and
But you did do Quick You've done
QuickBooks, too. And I'm obsessed with
QuickBooks, not TurboTax. Yeah, of
course. But just in terms of like Super
Bowl ads, our consistency uh has been
TurboTax.
Uh and it absolutely pays off. So we do
a lot of work afterwards uh in terms of
just what was the ROI,
what were the number of eyeballs, what
what what happened on our consideration,
but ultimately
conversion. Yeah. Did we get customers
to uh to convert and can we associate it
back causally to the Super Bowl?
And I would tell you generally it's a
really been a great ROI. There's been a
couple of years here and there where
it's not met our expectations. But uh
where do you get those kind of eyeballs?
Um okay. And it can go very wrong if you
don't do it right. Just
>> just back on that for half a second.
When it doesn't go right, is it because
the the actual ad itself just isn't that
good? Is it just very dependent on the
quality of the ad you put out there?
>> It all comes down to the quality and the
impact of the ad. Absolutely. It was was
it compelling to get your
>> you make that decision? So like lots of
people are working on different ad like
ideas for it. Are you the final
decision? Like you look at seven and you
pick it? First of all, I have to tell
you a a story and then I answer your
question because the story is about the
Super Bowl ad. I I remember vividly it
was a learning that I had when I worked
for Brad. So the first Super Bowl ad
that we ran was when I was running
TurboTax. Is that your idea? It was the
team's idea. No good ideas ever mine.
It's the team's idea. And so Brad finds
out that we're running a Super Bowl ad.
I never even thought
to talk to Brad about, "Hey, we're going
to run a Super Bowl ad." And so, you
know how kind Brad is, he called me and
goes, "Sasan,
uh I don't need to approve the Super
Bowl ad. But if you're going to run a
Super Bowl ad, like I need to be aware
of it because if it goes sideways,
I don't blame him, by the way. the CEO,
the board. So that I I shared that story
with you and he was so right, by the
way.
And so yes, I look at it. The team owns
the creativity. I mean, the biggest
thing I've learned about ads is
everybody has an opinion.
Uh and and most people it's an N of one
are wrong with their opinions even
whether they love it or not. You have to
have a systematic way in which
>> So you don't pick it. I don't pick it.
However, what I I absolutely review it
before it goes on air. I review
everything that before it goes on air.
The big thing that I'm looking for
beyond just how does it sit with me,
which is the least important, but how it
sits with me matters, is actually I'm
looking for reputational risk. Yeah.
Does this pass the bar of who we are as
a company, the reputation we need to
uphold? And so that's really what I'm
looking for in a Super Bowl ad. Of
course, I'll give my opinion of
it's not that great or wow, this is
amazing, but I'm really looking for the
reputational element.
>> Okay. Sticking on CAC for just another
second.
>> love CAC, don't you?
>> And it's it's SMB. It's how do you scale
CAC? How do you scale?
>> I'm not going to give you my secret.
>> Yes, you are. Is it ye old NPS? Is that
how you measure word of mouth? Like how
do you know if you're getting the word
of mouth or not? It's hard to go in the
shop and see if Mary's telling Joe that
they should use QuickBooks.
>> 100%. I I agree with you.
>> old NPS or is there something fancier?
>> There's a there's a few things that we
look at. One, we'll look at product
recommendation scores. That's a big
input, but it's just one input. The
other we look at is services because
customers may give you one NPS, but if
they're using more and more of your
services, then that's a huge indication.
So we'll look at
are they using
payments? Are they using payroll? Are
they using all of yeah, are we are they
using more and more of our services?
So that's one thing that we look for. So
it's NPS, it's the it's the number of
services, and then we also have And is
it gross retention? Just like how many
the number of logos churning? Yeah,
gross retention, also just retention
dollars that we that we look at. So all
we look at three, four things cuz what
we've learned
um this is probably the most important
thing that I would
pass on to those that that listen to
this. If you just look at one metric are
customers recommending? Is your is your
NPS high? You can have a very high NPS
and no new customer growth. So you have
to really look at multiple metrics.
Again, we look at what I just
articulated to really get a feel for are
the things that we're doing working or
not?
>> Okay. Lots of founders ask me about
HubSpot's channel program,
which we lifted a lot of it from you
guys.
And you guys kind of took accountants
and turned them into resellers and
software companies. We took website
designers and turned them into marketing
agencies. Talk to me about you're
advising a founder. We got he's growing,
doing great, wants to do a channel
program. Like how do you do it? What
works? What doesn't work? I mean, the
first piece of advice I would give is
what problem are you trying to solve
with a channel partner before you jump
into how do you become great at channel
partners? You know, in in in in our
case, really our biggest partner is our
accountants. Yeah. And we we don't have
a bunch of channel partners. We have
developers that will build apps on our
platforms. We have partners, but we
don't have
>> That's what I'm talking about, the
accountant channel.
>> Yeah, the accountant channel. And
really, so why the accountant channel,
you know, for us? Well, accountants also
serve consumers and businesses, right?
They're they're helping them with their
taxes, their books, their accounting
advice. And the larger you are as a
business, you may have them take care of
your audit. You may outsource your
payroll to them, right? It depends on
who you are and and
the size of your business.
And they're very influential in what a
business uses
um in in every dimension possible.
And so that's a great example of like,
well, that's a very important partner.
In fact, one of the big things
um that we've really evolved in the last
years
accountants are very important partners.
They're not it's not a just a channel.
It's not a reseller. Like they're a
partner and we have to
really up our game in terms of how we
co-develop with them, how we think about
going to market with them together, um
how we take their input. It's an area we
we had to significantly improve in the
last year.
And really to answer your question
for us, it was about well, they play a
very critical role
in ultimately what businesses use. So
not only do we have to be great at the
products we build for the end business,
but we also have to have a relationship
with them and and they have to use our
stuff, love it, and then recommend it.
And that's the biggest advice I would
give when you're thinking about a
channel partner. It's like, why are you
doing it? Are you doing it because
you're trying to manage your CAC?
And if you're doing that, well, what
what does that mean to your overall
economics?
>> Everybody want to The reason people want
to do it is they want to grow faster.
But and then the question though is you
grow faster, but what's the economics
look like? Um and you have to think
about those things. But I would just say
the advice I'd give is be very clear
about the problem you're trying to
solve. And it's okay to throw some stuff
at the wall and see what works. But if
you just start with I need channel
partners, I think you may make the wrong
choice. Okay. Let me run some things
we've learned about channel partners
through HubSpot by you and I'm just
curious if it's kind of the same.
>> Okay, yeah. Stuff that worked early was
we took website designers, a dying
business, and turned them into an
agency. And we taught them about this
new technology and idea called inbound
marketing, which is ancient now. And we
taught them how to run a proper agency.
Like we ran a little university. How do
you bill? How do you charge? How do you
run your agency? That worked.
Another thing that really worked is once
these agencies starting signing up lots
of customers, they needed software
themselves. So we funded a development
team to help them manage all their
customers.
>> own firm.
>> Right. That was a pretty good size
investment. Third thing that really
worked for us was and this is a Napoleon
thing. Napoleon said something like,
it's amazing what a soldier will do for
another colored ribbon on his on his
shoulder. And my goodness, we have found
that like we have like 10 tiers of
partners and they will fight tooth and
nail to get up a level. So measuring all
that, getting that benefit program, that
has really worked. One of the things
that's at least for us has worked is is
it easier to buy HubSpot? You you do it
yourself, you buy directly from us, you
figure it out, we teach you, or is do it
for me and that's where the agencies
come in. And that has worked for us.
Does any of that resonate for you? Is
that kind of some of the playbook?
>> Almost all of it resonates cuz I I could
take that same what you just said and
replace it with accountants. Right.
That's what I figured. same exact thing
applies. But I would just ask you,
what problem were you trying to solve
when you first started engaging these
agencies?
>> We wanted to grow faster.
Just be very honest with you, we wanted
to grow faster. And I'll tell you a
funny story about it. It's like two,
three years into HubSpot and
our product was awful. Just awful. And
we had a few sales reps and we had a lot
of leads from agencies who were curious
about inbound marketing. What's this
HubSpot thing? We had a lot of buzz. And
I told the sales reps, just leave those
leads. There's a pile of them over
there. Don't touch them. You know, they
sat in HubSpot. Don't touch them. You're
not we're not going to do the channel
pro the product's not ready. And they
kept asking me, no.
And we had a thing that's a little bit
like Google's 80 20% time where we say
you can do whatever you want nice
weekends. So this guy, Pete Caputa, a
great but really irritating sales rep.
He started calling them nice weekends.
And then you know, there's a
distribution of sales reps. Let's say we
had five of them. And like it's usually
a bell curve. Ours was like Pete Caputa
was like 50 times more revenue than the
rest. I'm like, maybe we ought to call
on these agency partners. That's how we
started it. Fascinating.
>> Yes.
>> you followed the money. Yeah. The other
thing that's interesting about our
agency if we look at our retention
numbers, gross and net, the agency
customers have better economic actually
better economics than our direct
customers.
They take actually take better care of
their of our customers than we do. By
the way, so many similarities. Like for
instance, when an accountant recommends
a customer
to use this particularly like larger
customers that we're now pursuing that
what we call mid-market, the cycle time
of flows is 10 times faster. And we end
up so offering more services, payments,
payroll to that customer than otherwise.
So there's so many so many similarities.
>> Okay. You guys I founders always ask me
too. You had an app, that was your first
act, and then you created a suite,
second act, and then you created a
platform, third act. How'd you do it?
Give some advice to that founder. She's
got 100 employees. She wants to go from
first act to second act.
>> Yeah. You guys you guys have mastered
that. First of all, a big part of it, as
you know, it comes out of necessity,
right? Um you've solved, you know, one
problem well, accounting and
ultimately what you realize is
the customer can be far more you can
deliver far more benefit and be far more
sticky if then you actually help them
with creating estimate and and invoicing
getting paid. And then the next thing
is, well, well, they they have
employees. We need to payroll. Payroll,
etc. etc. And so
>> How far into like the QuickBooks journey
did you start building other
stuff?
>> well, early on, but remember well You've
been around since the dinosaur ages.
>> Yes.
Thank you. You you said it more directly
than I was going to say it. Remember, we
used to ship CDs. And so one So when we
were shipping CDs and we had desktop
platform,
we had payroll. We had payments on
desktop years ago.
>> But then in order to shift from desktop
to the cloud, that was a massive
transformation for us as a company cuz
we weren't born in the cloud.
>> It was a hard one as I recall.
>> Very hard. A very hard. And by the way,
we're we're we've shifted to the cloud,
but we still have customers on desktop
that we're trying to motivate to come to
online.
Uh in some cases, they're not very happy
with us cuz they want to remain on
desktop. But the reason I share that
with you is that journey from going to
desktop to online took a lot out of the
company. And so when we then shifted to
the cloud, we were once again only an
accounting platform. Yeah. Because we
had to build everything in the cloud and
then we started building out same
journey, money solutions, payroll, uh
etc. So the biggest advice I would give
a founder is first of all, everybody has
an anchor. Ours was tax and accounting.
Then the question is, what's the next
problem you can solve for that customer
that's right next to that anchor? And
and for us, after accounting, it was
well,
people need to we serve service-based
businesses. They need to create an
estimate and invoicing and get paid. So
let's build that out. And then let's
build out payroll, which is very hard,
right? Cuz state, local taxes, country,
rules, regulations. And so it it's
really be very intentional about what's
next to your anchor and is that a big
enough problem to solve? Can you build
advantage by by solving it? And then
really nail that and then go to the next
thing. And then at some point decide do
you partner on certain things until you
build it? Do you acquire? Like that's
why we acquired like a Credit Karma. We
wanted to do more than taxes. We could
have replicated Credit Karma. Just would
have taken us five plus years because of
the data and AI capabilities. So that's
the advice I would give is
>> Okay. This is is self-serving. So we
built marketing and then we said we're
going to go into sales. We were kind of
forced into it cuz salesforce.com was
coming into marketing. And then we went
to service and we've added we I think we
have eight of these application areas.
We always debated we always knew there
was going to be eight. Should we peanut
better all seven new ones or should we
really almost finish the second one
before we go to the third? How do you
think about second versus third versus
like when did you So your first one was
paying people, right? Payroll. Uh no,
what it was actually it was actually
creating estimates and invoices.
>> Yeah, and then your third one's payroll.
So
>> Yeah. When did you go two? When did you
go three? What was it like? Do you look
at market share before you go or like
what? So this is it's a great question
cuz I now want to go back to your first
question you asked me which is
playbook of CEOs or playbook of any
leader. I think that playbook is very
different today Okay. than it was when
you were looking at things serially to
decide what what's next. I mean today
you know this as well as I
with data and AI what we're trying to do
is build a a system of intelligence
where it's no longer about
what workflow do I build? What app do I
build? It's actually about learning from
the customer and with our data and AI
capabilities solving that problem for
the customer. That's really important
because I don't think things are serial
today than than they were years
>> You can also build much faster now.
>> much faster. You don't need to be a
serial. As long as by the way you have
some element of data and AI capability.
So I just think that playbook
is very very different today than it was
four or five years ago. But the thing
that doesn't change yep
in my view is being clear
what customer problem are you trying to
solve?
Is it a big enough problem for the
customer? And can you solve it in a way
where you're advantaged versus others
and you know, it can be a big business.
Let me press on this a little bit. I
mean right
put the clock back. You I don't know
what year called 2020.
You're back office. We just the
canonical small business back office and
then we're going to buy Mailchimp in the
front office. I remember that very well.
Yeah.
And that decision at that point in time
was that because man, we've got 90
freaking percent of the SMB back office.
We better go in the front office. We
we're we're almost done with these
applications like
talk to me about that. When we observed
customers and their data, they had
created our customers had created 20
billion records within our QuickBooks
platform
trying to manage their customers within
QuickBooks.
>> I see.
>> So they were
creating
>> They were using QuickBooks as their CRM.
>> and so what we realized is we have to
solve this problem because customers are
manually creating a bunch of records cuz
they don't want to use
multiple different platforms and sort of
back to can we build it? Well, of
course.
Is this where we want to put our
internal capital? Do we have the
know-how, the domain expertise or do you
go buy it? That's what would lead to
buying Mailchimp. Okay. Got it.
You've made a lot of acquisitions. Not a
lot, you made a bunch. Some have been
real dogs and some have been terrific.
We don't have to name names. And like
HubSpot's we've starting to do by do by
a bunch of companies. What advice would
you give HubSpot and any CEO about you
know, the lemon the the ones that didn't
work versus work? Is there some best
practices or some things you've learned
about how to do them? 100%. Well, let's
just put to the side the foundational
stuff which is you've done your
homework.
There's real clarity of strategically
why you're doing it. Do you understand
the culture that you're buying? You have
a plan around that. You've done your
diligent like let's put all that to the
side cuz that's really foundational. The
two big things that that we've learned
is the pace of product integration and
talent. Where we moved fast on
integrating the the platform. I would
use TurboTax and Credit Karma. I mean
Credit Karma is an absolute home run.
Where we moved fast to know what
problems we're going to solve and
integrate the product so we can get to
benefit for customers which by the way
translates into growth.
And then where we needed to either
upgrade talent or make talent changes.
When we do those two things well
what we've seen is and by the way little
acquisitions that nobody asks about and
then there's the big ones, right? Credit
Karma and Mailchimp. Did you leave the
CEOs in place and leave them independent
or you put your people in?
>> Like in the case of Credit Karma it's
situational. You know, Ken and I had a
great relationship. Um he wanted to
continue to be CEO of very effective CEO
and he and his team were in place for
quite some time.
>> Okay. Uh whereas in the case of
Mailchimp Ben actually told us and told
me from day one hey
>> out. Yeah. we got to get we got to we
got to upgrade the leadership team. So
you put you put your folks in there.
>> That's right. But back to your question,
it's product integration and it's
talent. Those make an enormous
difference in terms of success and the
making the tough decisions up front is
far better than waiting.
Okay. I want to come back to something
you talked about earlier. You guys have
been around a while. You were desktop
software
and then you had to trans and I think it
was like client server and then went to
SaaS and went to AI. We're all kind of
on a big shift now. You were one of few
companies that made that shift pretty
well. Adobe and SAP. Not a lot of
companies made that shift from client
software to SaaS.
What did you do right there? Did you
wait too long? Were you too fast? Like
when you look at that shift back then.
My sense was you you moved to SaaS
actually kind of slow.
>> First of all, your premise of your
question is a really important one which
is we were we were born 40 some odd
years ago
in the era of DOS.
And right? Which makes it even more
impressive how well you guys have done.
>> And I would just say our success is when
we were always in love with the customer
problem and always willing to disrupt
ourselves. And that's so much easier
said than done by the way. So much
easier said than done.
But that's why we're still around. And
it's also why we were absolutely slow to
move to SaaS.
We were probably four to five years too
slow.
>> Cuz your customers weren't asking for
SaaS.
>> Customers weren't asking for it. They
absolutely didn't want to move to the
cloud and and as much as we are a
culture of disruption, that's a very
hard move to make.
>> Did you rebuild from scratch?
>> In many cases we had to rebuild from
scratch. And their service remember it's
even harder than the way you're asking
the question. You know, we were a
desktop company. We had all of our data
was siloed across TurboTax, across
accounting, across back then when we had
payroll, payments all every you had a
bunch of siloed vertical stacks and
data. It was a mess to move to the
cloud. It wasn't a mess the way we were
running it, but to move to become SaaS
that's like that is so hard to do which
is why we were slow.
>> Was it was it more technological problem
or business model problem? The business
model has totally changed too. Culture,
talent
>> Interesting.
business model, it's everything.
>> Got it. That's why you can look back and
go well, we were slow.
But when you're in it, what we had to do
was very
>> the customer home, they're not going to
tell you to make a platform shift.
>> Of course, but if you want to keep
growing, you have to make a platform
shift. So yes, we were slow, but the
degree of difficulty was very high. I
would say we were on reverse we were
very early in AI. I agree. Talk talk to
me about that. What's going on now for
you on that shift? And why were you were
you were you were like we're an AI
company in like 2009 long time ago. Way
before way before it was cool.
Were you too early?
Uh
I would tell you looking back we
absolutely weren't too early. We were
not. We're not. Meaning I'm glad we
declared But you did all this AI stuff.
Did any of it really work in 2009?
>> Well, it was Well, let me first tell you
why and then I'll answer your question.
We did it for very practical reasons.
When I stepped into this role because I
had the privilege of being in all the
businesses serving all the different
customers, there sort of two big things
that we put in place six and a half
years ago. One was
we have to solve more problems in tax
and accounting and we have to become a
platform so we can play a meaningful
role in the lives of consumers and
businesses. That was one big decision.
Uh we didn't know how, but that was one
big strategic decision. The other big
strategic decision was data and AI.
For very practical reasons because the
biggest thing I learned being in all
these businesses is consumers and
businesses want things done for them.
Yep. It's money, it's confidence. Like
get my stuff done for me so I can manage
and focus on my business or my life as a
consumer.
So we said the only way we could do that
was data and AI. And that was the second
big decision.
And and to your question of well, were
you too early declaring it? A big heavy
lift was all the work we did around data
and data services. Like cleaning the
data, making sure it's usable, making
sure we can ingest data. So it actually
came in on you were ready. Yeah. The AI
part was actually the easier part. The
harder part is all the data and now that
it's usable and all the services we have
to ingest data, that's why I'm glad we
started six and a half years ago cuz now
we're far better positioned for what
we're doing today and the future. And
when you think of it, are you infusing
AI into your current platform or you
saying hey, we're going to start from a
blank sheet of paper and build an AI
native version of QuickBooks? I would
say both. Everything you know, I get
asked a lot. So what's your AI revenue?
I'm like the whole company's is sits on
our data and AI platform. Like
everything from payments to payroll, to
tax, everything sits on our data layer,
data models and on our AI platform. So
that's sort of number one. Number two,
you know, one of the things we launched
in July of this year There a virtual
team of AI agents that do a lot of the
work uh for you.
>> Yeah. A lot of that is is AI native. I
mean Are you going to put the
accountants out of business by doing
that?
>> No, we're actually our focus is how do
we fuel their success? And we're also
very transparent with accountants, which
is
if you only have, you know, 50 customers
and all you do is
tax, you should really be part of our
platform, our expert platform, because
with technology and the the supply
issues, it's going to be tough as you
look ahead. So, we're trying to fuel
their success, but we're also partnering
with a large firm to really fuel their
success cuz they're trying to digitize,
they want efficiency, they want to
improve profitability, particularly the
PE back firms. Our goal is partnership
because we believe in AI plus HI. We
think human intelligence is essential
for today and the future. Our focus is
everything needs to be done for you. How
do we deliver experiences that's done
for you versus building more workflows
and designing more product? Yep. Okay.
We only have a couple minutes left. I
have a thousand more questions, by the
way. I coach all these CEOs, they're
smart, they're hungry, they're between
10 and call it 500 employees. They want
to go from like startup founder to
scale-up CEO. What CEO advice would you
give to these people? That's a loaded
question. You're a smart guy. I would
say really focus on winning.
These jobs are hard. Uh you know, I Do
you like your job?
>> Uh I
No, I love winning. Yeah. Is the
day-to-day do you enjoy it? Oh, there
are a lot of days where I'm like, that
was
No. Yes. Uh I'm not solving for joy. I I
think that's the advice I would give is
if you're solving for just following
your passion and and defining how the
day went by joy and happiness,
you're not going to succeed uh in in
this world um as a CEO or not a CEO. So,
the advice I would give is focus on the
customer and focus on winning. Um these
jobs are hard. Be prepared, right? If
you want to do this job, you got to have
grit, you got to work hard, you got to
have resilience, you got to understand
that most days you're not It's not about
passion, it's not about joy, it's about
winning. And what we do is very hard.
And I just think the mental toughness, I
think talent is overrated.
Okay. I think it's all about grit and
it's all about hard work. Um I will take
anyone that has grit and hard work
versus How do you know if someone's CEO?
You're interviewing someone, how do you
know if they got grit and hard work?
>> just you know what? I I I I there's
One of the things we have is one over
one approval. Um most of uh if if my
team's going to hire anyone, ultimately
I interview them. Yep.
And more than 50% of the time I go back
to them and say, "I don't think this is
the right person." Grit. Uh because it's
just it's the grit, it's the hunger,
it's the passion. You know, sometimes
when you
>> have someone to to figure that out?
>> I figure it out in the end of the
conversation. You can smell if
somebody's hungry, if they have grit, if
they have perseverance.
And I think that's what it takes to do
this job. Back to your back to your
question is the biggest advice I'd give
CEOs is
don't lose sight of the prize and it's
hard. Uh get after it. Outwork everyone,
have grit, and if you fail, figure out
how to get up and bounce back, and uh
and you'll achieve great things in life.
It may not be that CEO gig, but you'll
achieve great things in life. It's the
advice I give my kids. You've done an
amazing job here at Intuit. You've done
an amazing job on this podcast. Thank
you for sharing all your knowledge.
You're a legend. Appreciate you. Thank
you, my friend. Thank you. Okay, hope
you liked that interview with Sasan. I
really enjoyed it. A couple of
high-level things,
both Sasan and his predecessor Brad
Smith
are very polished and very smooth,
and they kind of rhyme with a couple
other folks I've had on the pod, David
Solomon from Goldman and Nikesh Arora
from Palo Alto. And it seems like
they're that's sort of a common thread
amongst the CEOs who've been hired in to
replace the founder in a company. Kind
of interesting that they have that in
common.
Another thought, like I I spent that day
with Brad Smith, their CEO, a few years
ago.
Just my suggestion to all of you
listening, if you're a CEO or you want
to be a CEO, that really worked and was
was really helpful to me. And so, if you
know a CEO and you admire them,
ask, "Hey, can I come in and sit with
you for a day and sit through your
meetings?" The very worst thing that can
happen is the CEO is very flattered and
says no. And so, you kind of win either
way. He asked a good question of himself
every 6 months. He asked himself the
question, "If I joined the company today
from the outside, what changes would I
make?" And that's the question I always
said I was ask myself at HubSpot, and I
very rarely did it. So, if that stuck
with you, I recommend you do it. I like
that he in almost everyone I've talked
to
is gets on the coal face with the
customers, like gets on support calls,
goes and talks to customers, follows
them home. And I think what kills a lot
of startups kind of between
a hundred and a thousand employees is
you get some layers in there and you get
all the feedback filtered, and you lose
that sort of coal face touch with the
customers. One thing he talked about was
this follow me home concept, and it's
it was at least it used to be, it's a
famous concept in my mind where the
founder of Intuit, they sell to very
small business, and people typically run
them out of their home. So, he would go
to someone's home and watch them do all
their paperwork and watch them do all
their accounting and see how frustrating
it was, and then kind of build from
them. That was his sort of secret sauce.
And almost every CEO I speak with is
really obsessed with understanding the
customer.
What I think people get in trouble with
now is they look at the analytics for
the customer and they can see usage data
and everything's very wired up quite
nicely for the CEO to see, but I think
you miss something when you don't
actually do that follow me home. Cuz
when you do the follow me home and you
sit with, virtually or not, that end
user, you can see not just what they're
using, but where they cutting and
pasting into other things and where's
the messiness in the process. I see a
lot of CEOs who are getting away from
that. I would encourage you all to stay
there. I think a very common cause of
death for companies going from a hundred
to a thousand employees
is they kind of lose that coal face with
the customer. They get their information
filtered heavily by their by their
staff. They get reportings from
analytics apps, but they don't actually
talk to those customers and they don't
make their senior team talk to those
customers. So, I think that's key. Then
we talked about the SMB segment and we
have this in common with Intuit,
although we sell
more to M than S than they do. What he
says about S I think is right.
Is you can't treat them like mini
enterprises, you have to treat them like
consumers, like the individual is like a
consumer product, you have to build it
that way. And it's a different mindset
and it's very easy to get talked into
building all kinds of other stuff for
mini enterprises. So, I like that they
did that. The key in SMB is keep your
CAC low. If your CAC is relying on
Facebook ads or whatever advertising
model, it's very hard to scale that. And
I like that they they focused on that.
They work through channels, they were
obsessive about word of mouth and their
promoter score, so I like that a lot.
And the other thing you have to do if
you want to build an SMB business is you
need a really solid LTV. You're going to
have churn, some of these folks are
going to go out of business. So, like
HubSpot will lose, call it 11%. So, we
start the year with a hundred dollars
and then we end the year actually with
89 dollars, but then we upsell them up
to 103, 104 dollars. You have to be able
to fill that divot with your best
customer buying more stuff. So, I I
think they've kind of got it down how
you build an SMB business. I think more
companies should go after this target
cuz there's just like gravity on Sand
Hill Road that everyone wants to go to
the enterprise, but if you can think it
through,
man, you can build a huge business in
SMB. HubSpot, Intuit, Shopify,
they're all cranking. Okay, we talked
about second acts and platforms,
and lots of founders ask me about this.
A lot of companies die because they can
never figure that second act out. I kind
of always thought of it in HubSpot,
either you build a platform and you get
by a platform. And so, we ended up
building a platform. What they did and
HubSpot did is they had their first app
was accounting, and the second app,
which was just right next to it, was
invoicing. So, they didn't go way into
HR or something. They just like, "We're
going to do invoicing." So, that was the
first act, second act. And then after a
while, they went into
payroll, which is a little further away,
but pretty close to that. So, when
you're building a second act, keep it
tight, keep it close. Very helpful if
it's the same buyer who's buying both of
those products. Not always the case and
hard to find that, but really important.
And then the other thing I would say is
you as you're going to your third act, I
think you want to be a little bit more
serial than parallel in the way you
think about this stuff. So, you build
your first act, and then instead of
doing second, third, fourth app and
peanut buttering it, really go after
that second act and get to table stakes
on there before you go to your third
act, your fourth act, etc. I really like
Sasan's hiring criteria, grit. It's the
first time I've interviewed nine or 10
of these really terrific CEOs, and no
one's no one said that before.
It reminds me of Sequoia's hiring
criteria for entrepreneurs. They look
for that chip on the shoulder. I don't
think they always get it, but pretty
much. And so, he looks for that.
And um most founders are telling me
these days we're looking for slope or
we're looking for experience, but I like
his grit. What's your hiring criteria?
What's your through line for all your
execs you're hiring? That's a good
question to ask yourself. Okay, those
are my my takes on Sasan. I think
there's a lot there.
And I hope you enjoyed it, and I'll see
you in the next one.
[Music]